README.md, before:

Balena Documentation
======================

Documentation for the [balenaCloud](https://balena.io/) platform. Join our [forums](https://forums.balena.io/) to chat.

Role
----

The intention of this repo is to provide our public-facing documentation. To view the documentation generated by this repo you should either [run locally](#running-locally) or view the [hosted version](https://www.balena.io/docs/).

Running locally
---------------

To run the docs web application locally, you should do the following:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/balena-io/docs
cd docs
npm install
npm run build
npm start
```
And then open [http://localhost:3000/docs](http://localhost:3000/docs).

> Note: if you are using macOS and you get `"RangeError: Maximum call stack size exceeded"`
> when running `npm install` (which eventually calls the `build.sh` script), have a look at
> the comments at the top of the `'Dockerfile.bindmount'` file.


How to Contribute
----------

- Issue Tracker: [github.com/balena-io/docs/issues](https://github.com/balena-io/docs/issues)
- Source Code: [github.com/balena-io/docs](https://github.com/balena-io/docs)

If you think something is not documented, or can be improved, don't hesitate in sending a PR! Check [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for the guidelines to ensure your PR can be merged as quickly as possible.


Deploying
----------

After a PR has been created, a member of the balena team will review and merge into `staging`.

Shortly after merging to `staging` it'll automatically be deployed to our [staging environment](https://www.balena-staging.io/docs/) (This should only take a few minutes).

Once deployed to staging, we will preview your changes. If everything looks good, a member of the balena team will make another PR from `staging` into the `master` branch. When this is merged, the changes will automatically deploy to [production](https://balena.io/docs)


Style manual
----------

### Default style manual: (TBD)

### Balena-specific words
For all, lower-case capitalization unless beginning a sentence (Ex. *I like balena. Balena is great.*)
* **balena** (used to refer to the company as a whole, not in place of balenaCloud, balenaOS or any other project)
* **balenaEtcher**
* **balenaOS** (note the capitalization of **OS**)
* **balenaEngine**
* **balenaFin**
* **balenaCloud**
* the **balena CLI**


Conventions
-----------
- Notes/Warnings are formatted using CSS. Use the following syntax to make sure it's rendered correctly: `__Note:__`

### Get Setup

```sh
git clone https://github.com/balena-io/docs.git
cd docs
npm install
npm run build
```
Now to check that everything is working correctly, start the local server with:
```
npm start
```
You should now see the docs served from [http://localhost:3000/docs](http://localhost:3000/docs)

To add you changes to the docs, create a new local branch of master:
```
git checkout -b my-docs-patch
```
Now you can make changes in this branch. Since our docs are static pages generated from markdown using metalsmith.io, each time you change some of the `.md` files you will need to run rebuild of the docs to generate the static pages. This is done by running:
```
npm run build
```
However there is a handy watch functionality that will watch for changes in `/pages`, `/shared`, and `/templates` and rebuild each time you save your changes. To use this, open a new tab in your terminal and run:
```
npm run watch-pages
```
Once you are happy with your changes, submit a pull request for you branch against `master`.

_Note_ that you have to restart the development server if you edit other things like `redirects.txt`.

### Using Partials

When creating new content or altering current pages, its recommended that you try keep things D.R.Y (Don’t Repeat Yourself). This is made easy by using “partials”. If you look in the `/shared` folder you will see a number of folders, these keep snippets or partials of the docs that can be reused all over the place. They also allow you to cleverly override a partial for a particular board type and language type. So in general you will see most of them just contain a `_default.md` which means that this partial will be used for all board and language types, but for partials like `getDeviceOnDash` we have device specific overrides.

```
├── getDeviceOnDash
│   ├── _default.md
│   ├── artik10.md
│   ├── artik5.md
│   ├── raspberrypi.md
│   ├── raspberrypi2.md
│   └── raspberrypi3.md
```

To use these partials in a markdown page all you need to do is add the following in the page:
```
{{ import “getDeviceOnDash” }}
```
and the engine will pull that partial into this location in the page.

### Adding external documentation

To add additional external documentation follow these steps:

1. Update `tools/fetch-external.sh` to add the additional external source. If required rename the source document as this will be used in the docs URL and in dynamically determining the "Improve this doc" link and must be unique. 
2. Update `externalDocs` in `config/links.coffee` to add the link to edit the source file. This is the link presented in "Improve this doc". The key must match the name of the filename without the .md extension e.g. `"node-sdk": 'https://github.com/balena-io/balena-sdk/edit/master/DOCUMENTATION.md'` for a file named `node-sdk.md`.
3. In `config/index.coffee` add the filename (again without the .md extension) to the `EXTERNAL_DOCS` variable so that the system knows to correctly identify this file as coming from an external source.
4. If the source is currently duplicated in this repo then delete the content from this repo and add the file to `/.gitignore`.

### Some other important bits

Its important to note that `h1` and `h2` headings will automatically be included in the left hand side navigation bar, so make sure to use these appropriately.

In the dynamically generated pages (the ones with the device-type and language dropdown) it is possible to use templates to dynamically change the device name and language name in your text. Here is an example:
```
Getting started with {{ $device_details.name }} using {{ $language_details.name }}
```
To add additional dynamic properties, see the files in `/config/dictionaries`.

If you remove a page that may be linked to externally to the docs, remember to add it to the `redirects.txt` in the root of the docs, if you don’t, then links will break and people will have a bad time, m’kay.

If you need to add image assets, add them to the `/static/img` folder, either under common if these images are general to all of the devices or resin, otherwise add them to the specific device folder.

License
-------

The project is licensed under the Apache 2.0 license.

Commit message:

Add build:fast build script
Change-type: patch
Signed-off-by: Vipul Gupta (@vipulgupta2048) <vipul@balena.io>

README.md, after:

Balena Documentation
======================

Documentation for the [balenaCloud](https://balena.io/) platform. Join our [forums](https://forums.balena.io/) to chat.

Role
----

The intention of this repo is to provide our public-facing documentation. To view the documentation generated by this repo you should either [run locally](#running-locally) or view the [hosted version](https://www.balena.io/docs/).

Running locally
---------------

To run the docs web application locally, you should do the following:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/balena-io/docs
cd docs
npm install
npm run build
npm start
```
And then open [http://localhost:3000/docs](http://localhost:3000/docs).

> Note: if you are using macOS and you get `"RangeError: Maximum call stack size exceeded"`
> when running `npm install` (which eventually calls the `build.sh` script), have a look at
> the comments at the top of the `'Dockerfile.bindmount'` file.


How to Contribute
----------

- Issue Tracker: [github.com/balena-io/docs/issues](https://github.com/balena-io/docs/issues)
- Source Code: [github.com/balena-io/docs](https://github.com/balena-io/docs)

If you think something is not documented, or can be improved, don't hesitate in sending a PR! Check [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for the guidelines to ensure your PR can be merged as quickly as possible.


Deploying
----------

After a PR has been created, a member of the balena team will review and merge into `staging`.

Shortly after merging to `staging` it'll automatically be deployed to our [staging environment](https://www.balena-staging.io/docs/) (This should only take a few minutes).

Once deployed to staging, we will preview your changes. If everything looks good, a member of the balena team will make another PR from `staging` into the `master` branch. When this is merged, the changes will automatically deploy to [production](https://balena.io/docs)


Style manual
----------

### Default style manual: (TBD)

### Balena-specific words
For all, lower-case capitalization unless beginning a sentence (Ex. *I like balena. Balena is great.*)
* **balena** (used to refer to the company as a whole, not in place of balenaCloud, balenaOS or any other project)
* **balenaEtcher**
* **balenaOS** (note the capitalization of **OS**)
* **balenaEngine**
* **balenaFin**
* **balenaCloud**
* the **balena CLI**


Conventions
-----------
- Notes/Warnings are formatted using CSS. Use the following syntax to make sure it's rendered correctly: `__Note:__`

### Get Setup

```sh
git clone https://github.com/balena-io/docs.git
cd docs
npm install
npm run build
```
Now to check that everything is working correctly, start the local server with:
```
npm start
```
You should now see the docs served from [http://localhost:3000/docs](http://localhost:3000/docs)

To add you changes to the docs, create a new local branch of master:
```
git checkout -b my-docs-patch
```
Now you can make changes in this branch. Since our docs are static pages generated from markdown using metalsmith.io, each time you change some of the `.md` files you will need to run rebuild of the docs to generate the static pages. This is done by running:
```
npm run build:fast
```
This will skip over downloading files from external sources which is a time taking process. However there is a handy watch functionality that will watch for changes in `/pages`, `/shared`, and `/templates` and rebuild each time you save your changes. To use this, open a new tab in your terminal and run:
```
npm run watch-pages
```
Once you are happy with your changes, submit a pull request for you branch against `master`.

_Note_ that you have to restart the development server if you edit other things like `redirects.txt`.

### Using Partials

When creating new content or altering current pages, its recommended that you try keep things D.R.Y (Don’t Repeat Yourself). This is made easy by using “partials”. If you look in the `/shared` folder you will see a number of folders, these keep snippets or partials of the docs that can be reused all over the place. They also allow you to cleverly override a partial for a particular board type and language type. So in general you will see most of them just contain a `_default.md` which means that this partial will be used for all board and language types, but for partials like `getDeviceOnDash` we have device specific overrides.

```
├── getDeviceOnDash
│   ├── _default.md
│   ├── artik10.md
│   ├── artik5.md
│   ├── raspberrypi.md
│   ├── raspberrypi2.md
│   └── raspberrypi3.md
```

To use these partials in a markdown page all you need to do is add the following in the page:
```
{{ import “getDeviceOnDash” }}
```
and the engine will pull that partial into this location in the page.

### Adding external documentation

To add additional external documentation follow these steps:

1. Update `tools/fetch-external.sh` to add the additional external source. If required rename the source document as this will be used in the docs URL and in dynamically determining the "Improve this doc" link and must be unique. 
2. Update `externalDocs` in `config/links.coffee` to add the link to edit the source file. This is the link presented in "Improve this doc". The key must match the name of the filename without the .md extension e.g. `"node-sdk": 'https://github.com/balena-io/balena-sdk/edit/master/DOCUMENTATION.md'` for a file named `node-sdk.md`.
3. In `config/index.coffee` add the filename (again without the .md extension) to the `EXTERNAL_DOCS` variable so that the system knows to correctly identify this file as coming from an external source.
4. If the source is currently duplicated in this repo then delete the content from this repo and add the file to `/.gitignore`.

### Some other important bits

Its important to note that `h1` and `h2` headings will automatically be included in the left hand side navigation bar, so make sure to use these appropriately.

In the dynamically generated pages (the ones with the device-type and language dropdown) it is possible to use templates to dynamically change the device name and language name in your text. Here is an example:
```
Getting started with {{ $device_details.name }} using {{ $language_details.name }}
```
To add additional dynamic properties, see the files in `/config/dictionaries`.

If you remove a page that may be linked to externally to the docs, remember to add it to the `redirects.txt` in the root of the docs, if you don’t, then links will break and people will have a bad time, m’kay.

If you need to add image assets, add them to the `/static/img` folder, either under common if these images are general to all of the devices or resin, otherwise add them to the specific device folder.

License
-------

The project is licensed under the Apache 2.0 license.
